Build Instructions:

Step 1: Check shell scripts are executable
Before continuing, please ensure that the shell scripts in this repository are executable by you.
You can verify their permissions by running: `ls -la *.sh`
If any of the following are not executable, make them executable by running the following command:
 - "run.sh" --> chmod +x run.sh
 - "setup.sh" --> chmod +x setup.sh
 - "start.sh" --> chmod +x start.sh

Step 2: Check API status to determine the Build Route
You should attempt to use Route 1 first. If the transport.scc.lancs.ac.uk API is down or degraded it may be worth using backup data via Route 2. See steps on how to establish what route to use below.

To establish which route to use first run "check-scc.sh" by doing ./check-scc.sh, if both bus timetables (not live bus data), rail timetables and bus the naptan endpoints are up you should be ok to run via Route 1, otherwise run via Route 2

Step 3: Proceed with the Application Start (Route 1 or Route 2)

Route 1: Using fresh data

Run "./run.sh"

This will start both devcontainers and import new bus/rail data. Please wait until the command line shows the app is running on localhost:8080/0.0.0.0:8080

Once the command line has notified you please wait up to 2 minutes for the route cache to load, after 2 mins you may go to localhost:8080 and use the application


Route 2: Using stored data

In the event the trasport.scc API is degraded or down please run "./run.sh --quick"

This will start the app using cached databse images, because this data may be from when the project was submitted you may encounter the following issues:
 - Bus route geometry being incorrect/not mapping to the road exactly
 - A lack of routes being returned
 
 
 Other functions:
 
 Restarting:
 
 If you wish to restart the app follow these steps:
 1. Do Ctrl + C in the Terminal running the app
 2. Wait for the output to come to an end
 3. If the application hasn't fully released the terminal do Ctrl + C again
 4. Once you can type in a command again run "./run.sh --clean"
 5. Then run "./run.sh" or "./run.sh --quick" to start the app again
 
Please see Manual.pdf for further details on how to use the app.
